Let's do some benching, bro. What
footwear, what shoes do you normally use
for Well,
>> I I like sneakers for benching. Okay.
Just regular sneakers. Do you have just
normal sneakers?
>> got those two, yeah. Yeah, great. Chuck
them on. So, the first thing is like you
That's a pretty mid grip, which is
great. Yeah. Right? Um but that's also
like um
Let's see. 4 5.
Like I I I use a wider grip. Yeah.
>> I'm holding it here, so that shortens
the range of motion again.
>> Exactly, cuz I I actually do quite
close, so Yeah. Damn, I'm looking at the
size of you in here and now it's just
brought it to another level. What This
looks like a baby's toy. No, [laughter]
come on. I swear, bro. It's like oh,
this thing I need a bigger bench for
you, bro.
>> What do you mean? Doesn't Bossy use
this? Yeah, bro. Yeah, it's I don't
know. Like this is uh
You're a big dude, bro.
>> [snorts]
>> Yeah, keep going. Keep going. Keep
going. This is what I consider to be
really good technique, but that's how I
would bench press if my goal was to
build pecs.
Not if my goal was to shift the heaviest
load.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay? Yep. So, there's
a few things that you're doing, which
are great, but I think that if we
introduce some more things that you're
not going to like
>> on day one. Yeah, that makes sense.
We've got to build to it. It's a new
technique thing and this is the thing
when you're introducing a new technique
to someone with already great technique
and and strong and advanced,
the new technique feels terrible. I
would say 99% of the times. So, that's
what I'm anticipating, but I'm going to
give you guys a trick to to do after
this, right? So, and that's I'll tell
you what I do from a programming
standpoint. When I program this for you,
I'm going to let make you do your exact
technique first.
>> Cool. So, we start with your technique
to allow you to lift heavy, so you feel
good about your session.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then we add as an
accessory exercise this new technique.
>> Great.
>> Okay? I like that. Good. So, the first
things first, it's hard to teach a
technique with no weight on the bar.
>> Yep. Um so, I'm going to just put a
little bit on here
so that you feel this position that I'm
going to be teaching you.
And when you do it,
>> [clears throat]
>> again, I'm not going to take you
anywhere close to a max. Cool. I'm going
to take you to something that you don't
have to think so much about.
>> Nice.
>> Because when you have to think, you'll
go back to your original technique.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right?
So,
What what what do you normally hitting
on bench? What was your best?
>> My best was 250 kg. Wow. Yeah, uh that
was my lifts.
Well, my lift was my overhead press,
actually, but because it's not a
competitive lift. Did you strict press
160? 175 strict press.
>> Oh my god.
>> Yeah, I was very strong at that. Yeah.
But it was like I was Actually, there
was an overhead press. I did this an
Australian record in a log press. I was
invited. I did 161 to break the
Australian record.
>> Strict press? Well, I did It was a log,
but I did it strict. What? Yeah,
[laughter]
because I'm so I don't know the
techniques
>> Yeah. with leg drive and all of those
things.
>> How'd you go with la- lap pulling it up?
>> So,
I It took me 8 weeks to learn that
technique. I learned how to do it.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um and actually, I'll
tell you the funny story. So, I came in
to break the record. I was invited by
Aaron Scharab
uh um in his gym in in Melbourne. He
goes, "The record's 160. Do you reckon
you can beat it?" I'm like,
"I don't know. I'll I'd love to try." He
goes, "The comp starts in like 6 or 8
weeks or something like that." Anyway,
so I came in and I couldn't even clean
like 120 kg. The clean component was the
worst. Anyway, learned how to do it,
got to 160, came to comp, and I got the
first the opener, which was 140. Second
attempt, 150, and I wanted to do third
attempt 161, right?
>> Yeah. So, I came to the second attempt
of 150, and I pressed it here, and I had
a bad habit in training, which was just
press and just keep on going, right? Not
to press and hold and put my head
through.
>> Yeah.
Right? So, I did the 150 and I go like
this, and the ref was standing there
like this,
>> Yeah,
and he was staring at you.
and I dropped it. And he goes He's
looking at me, super nice guy, the ref,
and he goes, "Sorry, bro. I can't give
you the down call.
>> Yeah. You you have to be locked out. I'm
so sorry, bro."
>> Yeah. I'm like, "You did the right
thing. Don't be sorry. That's the rules.
The rules. All good. All good. I'll come
back." Third attempt, 161 on the bar.
So, I skipped my 150. I knew I was
strong enough. I went to the 161 record.
You know, cleaned it,
tried to do the legs, went
>> Yep.
Boom, dropped it.
And I'm embarrassed so badly, but I had
a smile on my face to pretend I was cool
with it, but I wasn't cool with it,
right? And the ref is there just like
this guy going
like, you know, "Sorry, bro."
And I'm just in there going
And I went to walk off, and someone
screams out, "30 seconds." I'm like,
I [__] came in, and instead of trying
to do the technique, I just went, you
know, here and I just went lean back,
>> Yeah. standing bench press. Boom. Yeah.
Yes. Boom, and he gave me the down call.
>> Nice.
I hurt my back so bad.
>> Oh. Yeah, because it was like leaning
back so hard.
>> Yeah, and you hadn't warmed up to do
that.
>> Yeah.
>> But it was just like I wasn't missing
that.
>> Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah,
yeah. I was so embarrassed.
That's mad. And and anyway, so I got the
record from a strict press, which was
which was pretty cool. But But apart
from that, my my pressing Here's the
difference, and this is what I look at
with you. The length of your [__]
arms is longer. It's a disadvantage,
bro. I've got short arms.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know what I
mean? So, the longer arms are better for
deadlifts.
>> Yep. They're not so handy for a bench.
So, this is why your rack height is a
lot higher than mine. Yeah. My rack
height, I don't press it very far.
>> Well, you also out here, eh, as well?
>> Yeah, wider, which makes it shorter
again, more arch, which makes it shorter
again, and I've got shorter arms.
Right.
>> I'm I'm like foot I'm like foot on my
toes.
>> You have range of motion, brother, which
is a stronger arm,
but we're not measured on how strong we
are. We're measured on how much weight
we lift.
>> Exactly.
>> Do you get it? It's two different
things. It sounds strange, but it's not
the same. Strength helps, but at the end
of the day, how many kilograms are we
going to lift? Let's go. Now, take a
seat
on the edge. Now, lay back.
I want you to try something new. Slide
all the way back, so your head's off the
bench.
Okay, now Now, bring your feet back and
get on the balls of the feet. Good. Now,
from here, when you slide into position,
your heels are going to want to lift.
They're going to Let them lift, but I
want you to think about pushing the
heels downwards. So, from here, I want
you to not go the widest legal grip, cuz
it's going to feel funny, but let's just
put uh this finger on the smooth part.
Okay. Okay? So, we're trying a little
bit wider.
>> Yeah, I've never gone this wide. Right.
Go here. Now, from here, keep You're not
allowed to bring your feet forward. Yep.
Slowly, slowly come into position.
>> All right. Come on.
Let the heels lift. Good. Good. Now,
good. Now, from here, I want you to
think about head on the bench. Good.
Push the heels downwards. That That is
initiating the arch. From here, I want
you to think about pulling your shoulder
blades back and down. So, squeeze that
together. Good. Now, take a big breath
and hold.
Hold your breath. Shoulder blades back
and down. Shoulder blades back and down.
Good. Keep them back and down. Let's go.
Down and up. Keep your shoulder blades
Keep your head on the bench. Keep your
head on the bench. And up. Good.
Sh- Keep your shoulder blades back and
down. Don't explode up, either. Just
push it up.
Good. Two more.
Good. One more.
Mhm, good. And rack.
Yeah.
So strange, huh? Very strange.
Good. Get down. Jump up. Now, I'm going
to give you a quick demo. All right?
So, that you understand what you're
doing. It's a different mechanism.
>> Yeah. What you're doing is a lot of
muscle,
a lot of pec muscle in particular. Yep.
For me, I want to avoid pec muscle.
Yeah, that's good. I want to spread the
load evenly across all of the pushing
muscles,
>> Yep. right? Now, I'm going to show you
the difference between what I'm doing
and what you're doing. Okay?
So,
I'll use the same grip as you, which was
the middle finger on the line. Now, look
at So, where the feet were, you you're
up on the balls of the feet, and you
push the heels downwards.
>> Yep. Right? So, that downwards, that's
called hip joint extension. That
initiates the arch. So, you probably
felt a lot of tension at the front of
the thighs.
>> yeah. Right? And then that's that's how
we initiate the arch. The next thing
from here is we chisel our shoulder
blades back and down towards our back
pockets, right? So, from here, watch me.
I'm just going down and up.
Okay? What you were doing was going You
were When you're pushing, you're going
pecs, right? And then you're tucking the
elbows excessively. Yeah.
>> And and then this is why you want to
lift your head.
Yeah, I always do that.
>> So, So, what I want you to do is instead
of tucking the elbows, just just down
and up, right?
Just down and up.
Okay?
So,
let's do that standing.
Come for a walk.
This is the education for bench pressing
with this specific technique, which I
learned from Kirill Sarychev, who, in my
opinion, is the most technical of the
heavyweight benches in the world. He
used to be the world record holder with
a 335 kg bench press, right?
So, he's a big dude, and he uses this
exact technique that I'm teaching you.
So,
the way that we start is with a lat pull
down, right?
This position that I'm in now, that's
what I want you to feel. This position
of the shoulder blades, right? So, here,
that position
is how I want you to bench press.
>> Okay. Okay? So, let's just do that. And
I want you to just do five reps, pause
it on your chest, so that you can refine
that shoulder blade position Yep. that
I'm after.
Just that.
>> [sighs]
>> Shoulders back and down.
Good.
Good. And up.
Shoulders back and down. Good. Come up
to a stretch. I just want to see your
shoulder mobility and everything, good.
And then back and down.
Nice, good. Just give me one more full
stretch. Shoulders back and down, good.
And relax, nice.
Good.
So, now
let's get out the Stand over here. Get
the imaginary bar
and do a lat pull down. Do a lat pull
down.
Now, maintain that position. See, we've
got the arch? Yep. Now, from here, keep
your arms down, maintain that shoulder
position. Relax the arms, but maintain
that shoulder position. Now, go like
this. Arms out in front, but keep that
shoulder position. Keep the shoulder
position and just do that now. Keep the
shoulder position. Keep them back.
That's the position.
>> Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> That's the position. Okay.
Okay, now
it's going to feel funny when you have a
weight in your hands. You're going to
want to go like this. When you have the
weight in your hands, you're going to
want to go hold that weight.
You don't need to. Keep the shoulders
back.
>> Okay. You keep the shoulders back.
Good. So, you're resting on the joints.
You're not resting it on the muscles.
Oh, well. Let's try and do it again.
Feet back a little bit.
Back more? A little bit more.
Good. Slide into position.
>> [sighs]
>> Good.
Good. Now Good.
Now, drive the heels down. Squeeze the
shoulder Don't worry about the weight in
your hands. Let's squeeze the shoulder
blades into the bench. Squeeze them
together, good. Now, take a big breath.
Yep. Head on the bench. Head on the
bench. Good. Now, just go down and up.
Keep the shoulder blades back and down.
Down and up. Down and up. Nice, nice,
nice, nice. There we go. Keep the heels
down. Head on the bench. Head on the
bench. Good. And rack. Nice.
>> [laughter]
>> Nice.
Yeah.
It's a
nowhere near as much as I such a long
range of motion. I feel the weight it's
locked in. I feel like my base is
stronger. Yeah. It's just traveling up
there up there. It's a lever. It's a
lever.
That was nice. It's an efficient lever.
Good. Have a drink, please, brother.
We're going to go heavier.
I like a good technique day. You know
what I mean, Jaden? Yeah. You know, and
this is me now with majority of my
training is a lot of people talk about
how hard we train.
For me, I look at that as it's like, of
course, there's a time and place for
working hard, but refining the technique
before you then apply all the hard sweat
sessions and all that [__] Get the
technique right first.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, I'm learning boxing. I
shouldn't say learning. I suck at it,
but I've been doing it for many, many,
many years, right? And I'll I'll I'll
give the analogy. A good boxer doesn't
get that way by coming in and practicing
how to rip someone's head off from day
one.
They practice the strategy. They
practice footwork. They practice the
jabs. They practice the light punches
and all of the game plan before they rip
the person's head off.
Right?
>> Yeah.
Why do you think anyone at any boxing
gym in the entire world has ever thought
anyone was impressive by just going
Exactly. But then you look at that cool,
collected dude that's just like
half-assing it, but his technique is
perfect. And And it's the the effortless
ones, but it's still powerful and you're
like, Oh, no, no, no. Now I'm in
trouble. That guy's in trouble. Now I'm
in trouble. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This guy
didn't even try. Exactly. Yeah, and he
stung me. Yeah, exactly. Okay.
[laughter]
It's It's the same thing. Like, the good
guys don't come in and screaming and all
of that stuff.
>> exactly. Get the the technique. Refine
the technique. And then And then, once
we've mastered the technique, then apply
the effort.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Same principle
applies. Let's go. As it gets heavier,
you're going to want to Use more muscle.
That's where it's hard to learn. You've
got to just trust the technique. It's
like it's a really strange thing. It's
It's actually I want to minimize pecs.
Yeah. Okay? Keeping the shoulders back
like that and keeping the levers, it's
actually more about triceps.
So So See my shoulders? There's minimal
movement. It's as opposed to Watch this.
No shoulder movement. That shoulder
movement is your pecs kind of coming
into play here.
>> Yep.
Minimize that. It's just elbow
extension. Elbow extension. Elbow
extension. Okay? Let's go. Take it The
end And we keep the head on the bench.
Yeah, I know. Yeah. Okay, it's a
different one. Good.
Good. Slide back. Middle finger on the
line.
Middle finger on the line. Good.
How's it feel there? That's good.
>> Yep. Good luck.
Heels down. Heels down. Good. Now, relax
everything and just pull these back.
Pull these back. Good. Now, take a big
breath and hold.
Shoulders back. Shoulders back. Head on
the bench. Head on the bench. Shoulders
back. Good. Down and up. Shoulders back.
Heels down. Shoulders back. Heels down.
I want five. Drive the heels down.
One more. And rack it, good.
Five reps. Very good.
>> [laughter]
>> Very good.
How's that? Oh, yeah. It's like
I didn't even feel the weight. I didn't
feel it.
I'm just worried about just Put it up
like Push it up. Push it up. Push it up.
It's just the lever now.
>> And And I'm also
focused on everything else. And once you
feel that How's your lower back? No,
it's all right. Okay, great. Sometimes
that can force extension on your lower
back, which which can feel a little bit
tight. I'll tell you what I do is I use
a belt. Oh, yeah, yeah. Right? And I use
the belt to um do two things.
When it gets heavier
and you're like in bench in
powerlifting, you got to pause it on
your chest
>> Yeah. and wait for the the the ref goes
start and you bring it down. Yeah. And
then they go You've got to wait for them
to say press.
So, there's two ways of doing that. A
light pause
or a heavy pause. I do a heavy pause.
So, what does that mean? I let the
weight rest on my chest.
If it's a light pause, you're holding on
waiting for that guy to say press.
>> Yeah. And it's like a big isometric
contraction. Whereas, if you rest on
your chest, boom.
I'm just I'm resting now. Yeah. And I'm
waiting for you to say press. Yeah, cuz
you know, sometimes when I watch you
bench, I actually feel like I'm thinking
I told you that it [__] caved into
you.
>> Absolutely, bro. Yeah. I'm like, [__]
this is I don't think you like the
weight in there.
Yeah, yeah.
But it's just easier. Yeah. It's just
I'm I'm going to give you a demo next of
of what I mean by that.
>> Yeah. The The whole thing with the pause
is not using muscle. Yep. Now, the thing
is, using a belt
keeps my body rigid. Without a belt,
that bar will sink deeper.
>> Yeah. With the belt, my balloon is
filled up with more air and more rigid
air. It doesn't sink as deep. Wow.
So
saying all of that
that's why I use a belt in a bench
press. Yeah. Okay? So, if my If you
don't have an issue with your lower
back, it it might be no problem at all.
Okay. Well, would you say there's
there's some high-level benches that
don't use belts at all? Yeah.
What? Absolutely. Absolutely. Some
people I don't think that's a thing.
Yeah. So, some people do bench press
in competition. Like, Kirill does it in
like in competition, but
Kirill's the guy that I was telling you
about. He's the guy that I learned it
off. He teaches a light pause. Oh, okay.
He He's a machine. He 335 kg, he brings
it down, delicately touches, and drives.
It's unreal.
>> Yeah.
Um
and he says, when you got 300 plus
kilograms, if you let it rest on your
chest, it's going to sink over an inch.
Now, you've got to travel longer to get
that weight up.
Which I I listen to what he's saying,
and he's the man, but I disagree. Okay.
Yeah. I think it's just easier to turn
those muscles off when you're waiting
for the pause. But either way either
way, I'm not saying it's wrong. I'm just
saying
>> Everyone's got their own preferences as
well. I prefer a different way. That's
Exactly. That's why I use the belt is
for heavy pause. He doesn't do a heavy
pause. Yeah.
>> [screaming]
>> You know?
You know what I can't stop thinking
about is when you were like, when I
watch you bench, it looks so tiring.
Yeah. I was like, that's exactly how I
feel.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, [__]
Yeah, that's exactly what I feel. I feel
like it's the worst thing ever. It's the
longest range of motion. It's tiring.
It's [__] I feel exhausted. I feel I
feel like it takes me so long to
mentally prepare. It is pretty hard. And
It is pretty [laughter] hard. Yeah, you
know I was saying that I had 60 kilos on
there. You're like, "Oh, that was hard."
Yeah.
It's unreal, man. You should see what I
have on 40 on
>> [laughter]
>> I'm like
Yeah.
Totally. Let's do it again.
Now, the head position is important, cuz
when you lift your head, it's rounding
your upper back. Okay. You got to keep
it back. I want you to arch your upper
back the whole time. Yes. Okay, head on
the bench. Head on the bench.
Okay, so yep, good. Slide back.
Feet back. Up on the balls of the feet.
Feet back
No, that's good. That's good. That's
good. Happy with that? Yep. Slide into
position.
>> [snorts]
>> Pushing the heels downwards, good.
Pushing Okay, head back. Head back. Head
back. Head back. Shoulders back and
down. Heels down hard, good. Big breath.
Shoulders back and down. Shoulders back
and down. Shoulders back and down. Good.
Let's go. Shoulders back and down. Head
back. Head back.
Two more. Shoulders back and down. Good.
And rack.
Okay, looking good.
Looking good. Yeah. It's all good. Head
is lifting. Oh, head's up. Yeah, yeah.
Which is rounding the back here. Yes.
It's all It's all It's all It's all
here. Here. Here. Yeah. So, if there was
no bench, I'd want you back here. Yeah,
yeah. That's So, I'm trying to arch your
back. Yeah. I'm not trying to flex your
back. So, head up is called cervical
flexion. Right? Cervical flexion leads
to some thoracic flexion. Which is the
the middle back muscles. I want thoracic
extension. This arch, the lower back
will arch. It'll come on for the ride.
But it's all about upper back arching.
It's that part there that I want hard.
>> Yep. So, some people do this technique
and they just arch their lower back, but
their upper back's not arched. That's
the wrong technique. Right? So So, this
helps us get that. That's the most
important. Okay? So, there's two parts
to that. So, think about arching the
upper back, but also pulling the
shoulders back. So, put your arms in
front. Pull your shoulders back hard.
That arches your upper back. Yep. Okay,
now, keep the head back as you're doing
that. There we go. That arches it even
more.
Okay, so the head is is the neck
cervical extension, and then we've got
the lumbar spine. I want the thoracic
spine extended, but the cervical and the
lumbar is going to contribute to that.
But once you
focus on your head back and you get into
that top position, you probably
shouldn't even be able to really lift
your head. It should be like It should
be like right in there to the point
where cuz you've tucked in that much,
eh? Precisely. I can't move my head.
It's back.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Uh-huh. Right.
>> here here here. Yeah, it's very good.
The next thing is, right, I'm telling
you to take a big breath in. You've
already done it. Yeah, what what's the
go with that?
>> No, just breathe breathe breathe while
we're setting up.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Yeah, that that's all. So, just figure
out how to So, we're getting in position
while you're breathing.
>> that you had to have
Yes. And then you get into position. No
no no no no no. We're breathing to get
into position.
And then we go
Oh, you fill up from there. Okay.
>> Just for the unrack. Otherwise, you're
just wasting your breath.
Cuz [laughter] I was like I already
breathed in. You're like, "Take a deep
breath." I'm like, "I've already
breathed
Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] Yeah.
Now, here Here's small details of
equipment.
See this? This is a [__] design.
This
rack.
Come and come and zoom in on this. This
um
cradle for the barbell to sit in, it's
too big for powerlifters, man. Have a
look at the Eleiko one. It's a much
smaller cradle.
Right? So, over there, what you're doing
when you're lining up is
is you're rolling it back to the back of
the cradle.
That means you need to unrack it even
further to clear that lip.
So, when I'm here with you, I'll tell
you what I'm going to want to do is is
Oh, you hold it forward and then you
just Yeah. So, if anyone's ever seen me
spotting, I'm like this. That's why I'm
doing that. I'm pushing it forward
because when you set up, you go like
this. You roll into position like that.
And it's like, "No, no. Let's Let's
Let's get it back here." Okay? So, that
way That way
>> You just have to go over that. You All
we're doing is clearing that part.
That's exactly right. Some benches at
commercial gyms, especially when people
bench on a squat rack, these J-hooks are
huge.
And that means I'm I'm going to show you
what it means.
When I unrack, my eyes are behind the
bar.
So, I'm about here. Because when I
unrack, I just want to go
just to there.
When most people unrack, they have to
worry about not hitting these things.
So, they have to slide further down. And
watch me. I've got to go
travel all the way over here.
That means I'm reaching so far back, I'm
taking my shoulders out of position. I
want precision. Mouth in line with the
bar. Eyes behind the bar. When I unrack,
it's just
Bang. That's all. I don't want to move.
I don't want to move.
All I The only movement is
not hitting this. That's as far back as
I need you
uh to bench is to not hit this. Not at
that 250. You don't want to be going
Right.
Exactly.
This way you just want to go Exactly.
It's like a comparison is a squat rack.
Do I want to go
when
when I'm unracking a heavy squat, you
know what I mean? Or do I want as few
steps as possible to be in position?
Same thing. All right. Same setup. And
this time,
I'm going to hold this forward.
You will It might feel weird. Okay, now
we're we're breathing through this.
Bring your feet back. Bring your feet
back. Feet back more. Feet back more.
Feet back more. Good. Breathe in.
Breathe in. Slide into position.
Okay.
Heels down. Shoulders back. Breathing.
Breathing. Breathing. Head back. Head
back. Shoulders together. Shoulders
together. Okay. Big breath. Shoulders
back. Shoulders back. Shoulders back.
Shoulders back. Good. Heels down.
Shoulders back. Heels down. Shoulders
back. Heels down. Shoulders back.
One more.
Excellent. Good.
Good.
Good. Yeah. Yeah. This is where I know
if we go heavier, like that's easy.
Don't get me wrong. I know if we go
heavier,
you're going to start calling on more
muscles.
>> Of course. Of course. So, this is where
I notice is back to that position again.
Right? I want you to minimize that
shoulder movement and just keep it at
elbow movement only.
So, I want you to try and redo that set.
Okay. Okay. Um let's do a set of lat
pulldown in between just to refine that
back position that I want. Okay?
Because that's the problem is you're
already strong.
So, to do a new technique, you're going
to go, "No, these are the strong muscles
that I used to lift that." And you're
telling me to use a whole different
bunch. It's not going to work. I will
I'll let me just go a little bit
heavier.
Okay. Now, just got eight reps. Don't
worry about pausing on your chest at
all. Just just squeeze.
Chest up and squeeze.
Full stretch.
Chest up and squeeze. Good. Full
stretch. Chest up and squeeze. Perfect.
Perfect. Perfect.
Very good.
Nice. Nice. Have a drink, please.
Chill.
Get some energy back. Thinking out loud
to write your program, I'd go like this.
First set of the day, I'd be doing
something like two sets of three on your
technique.
You know, so you're saying you can
bench, you know, 160. That's probably
equivalent to sets of three on one 130,
135, 140 is what I would see in your
program. Right? So, two sets of three on
that. But then the backdown work, I'd
get you to do two sets of 12 on 100.
With my technique.
Do you know what I mean? So, it's like
you can do two sets of 12 and have a
conversation with me. How everything's
feeling.
So, that's the idea of it. That you
don't have to go back to you know, like
autopilot where it's like,
"These are the strong muscles that I
need and I'm going to put them on." It's
like, "No, I don't need strong muscles
for this. I can have a conversation with
you and just think about the technique."
Right? So, we do that for a few weeks
where you go week one 100, week two 110.
Week two 120 on week three, you know
what I mean?
So, it'll be good to get you to do 120.
Like I know that with this lever,
you'll be repping sets of 10 on this
weight no problem. Just ding ding ding
ding ding.
Okay, and that's the goal. And then,
I'll tell you what we do on phase two.
So, that's phase one.
Phase two, we flip it. And now we go to
that wide grip new technique at the
start of the session. We've had, you
know, a whole phase of practicing it as
an accessory lift. So, you still do your
strong work, and you practice your new
technique in your accessory lift. Phase
two, we start with the [__] new
technique.
But you've had a whole month of
practice.
>> [sighs]
>> Okay. [gasps]
King.
You've been going overseas business,
doing videos. Have Do you have Do you
think you've got like time to allocate
to like Let's just set time for a comp.
It's too hard, eh?
>> Well, I mean, I don't I never really
thought about that.
>> Yeah. Because
>> Like an uninterrupted training block.
>> Yeah.
>> Is that a possibility for you?
I I mean, if I can I can plan it out to
be, but um Even if it's like Let's just
say forget competition. Like maybe
competition, who cares.
But like to set yourself up to see
what's possible, like do like a 12-month
commit I'm sorry, sorry. A 12-week
commitment. Even for you, like just your
YouTube channel. Like let's just see
what's possible in 12 weeks. You know
what I mean? Let's just see what happens
with 12 weeks of commitment. I'm not
allowed So, I I trained this guy. His
name's Matt D'Avella. And he came to me
and he goes, "I just want to make a
video of 100 days of powerlifting." I'm
like, "That sounds awesome. Let's do it,
you know?" So, I took him through the
process. And he went from He was a
75-kilo guy. He went from like a
140-kilo deadlift to 200. Wow. You know,
uh squat was I don't know what it was.
It was like 100, and he went to 160. And
it's like,
"That was sick." Like it's not as though
it's like he's a professional athlete.
He's not a professional athlete. He's a
normal guy.
And he committed for 100 days and did
some amazing things. And the video was
as sick. Anyway, for someone like you
and the size of you, your genetic gift
to go, "Let's see what 12 weeks of
uninterrupted training would do."
I think we'd you'd do some pretty crazy
things.
>> Yeah, I just want to see what I can do,
man. I I think it'll be amazing, bro.
Yeah, cuz
like for you, you know, like you can
walk into any gym and know
I I can probably keep up with
anyone in here. You know what I mean?
Like With barbell movements, for sure.
Strongman is hard. No, that's not the
same, but yeah.
You know, what drives you to be
the best in the world if majority of the
gyms you walk into you're pretty good,
man. You know what I mean? So,
that's what I I've got to try and get
past that is like like I trained with
most people, and most people are like,
"That was good." And I'm like, "Thanks,
man." But at the same time, I'm like,
I'm nowhere near
some of the elite lifters.
What if I committed? What if I could get
around that? You know what I mean? What
if I could get close to that?
I I I would say for me, it was mainly
delusion. And I'll tell you the delusion
was I was I started at Fitness First in
North Sydney, and I didn't know what was
out there. My goal was just to be the
best here. So, for me, that meant as
soon as I had a 200-kg squat, I was the
man.
No one else could squat that, and I was
the man. And I was like, "Fuck, I'm
good."
And then And then I'm like And then it's
like, "Are you going to compete?" I'm
like, "Yeah, might as well." And then I
started looking at the records. I'm
like,
"Holy [__] I am not even close to good.
What the hell?" But I'd already told
these people, "Hey, I'm like, look at
me. Of course I'm going to compete. You
know, I'm the man." And it's like,
"Fuck. I've got to put in the work now."
So, then I just went in and I was like,
I I said what I said, and I need to act
on it now. Do you know what I mean? It
was like That was my ego. So, that's
what got me from thinking I was the man
to then going like big fish in a small
pond, very small pond, to then going,
"Holy [__] This is the rest of the
world. [__] I can't let these guys
down." Wow, that's amazing.
>> Yeah. So, then I just kept on working,
actually thinking that I wasn't going to
get anywhere close to that. Yeah, and
and then a year goes past, 5 years goes
past, 10 years goes past and it's like,
holy [__]
You know what I mean? Yeah. So, this is
what I'm telling you for for to commit
to 12 weeks. I I did that for [__] 12
years. Wow. Yeah, that's how long my
powerlifting journey was
where I was like, if you asked me then
if I could do this like 10 10 10 years
ago, if if you said to me, these are the
numbers you could get, I'd be like,
please. Come on. No, you can't. That's
you can't do that. Wow. You know what I
mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But yeah, that's
that's the thing. It's so good. It's the
commitment, brother. Yeah, that's it.
Yeah.
And uninterrupted commitment. Anyway,
let's see. Yep. So, what's you tell me
right now, what's the focus of this set?
We're going to do another set of three.
What did we do wrong on that first set
of three? The um coming forward.
>> Exactly. Okay, so that's all. We have
the feet down.
We just let the the pecs take over and
the shoulders come forward. So, now you
all you got to think is elbows elbows
elbows. So, as soon as that elbow is
extended, that's a rep. That's
>> That's a rep. We don't need to push
further than that. Oh, well. Beautiful.
And even then, I like to do a partial.
So, I like to not even get the complete
lock out when I'm doing rep work. When
you're doing one, you have to finish
with a lock out, but that extra rep that
extra lock out Yeah. can pull your
shoulders forward.
>> Exactly. Well, I think that's what I'm
really focusing on is like locking out
those things. Let's let's not do that.
Let's focus on keeping the shoulders
back. So, if you look at the best
bodybuilders in the world, they don't
lock it out. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> what they're doing, but they understand
that they want their the same muscles to
have constant tension. So, when you lock
it out, you're now out of position.
>> Yeah. So,
I'm certain that they don't know that's
what they're doing, but I know that they
feel that when they lock out, they're
out of position. It feels [__] So, they
just don't get themselves out of
position. So, that's their press.
Maintain constant tension constant
tension. And it's probably more
beneficial for the muscles cuz
>> it is. Yeah, because yeah, when you're
here, it's weightless. You're not
resting on your bones.
>> yes, exactly. I don't want you resting
on your bones. Just keep it on the
muscles. Yep. All right. Beautiful. All
right, I got you. So,
I'm going to push the bar forward again.
Okay, middle finger on the line.
Good.
Good. Now, feet back. Feet back more.
Feet back more.
Yeah. Bit more. Bit more. Bit more. Bit
more. Good. Now, drive the heels down
and slide into position.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> Breathe in. Breathe in. Breathe in.
Heels down. Okay, squeeze the shoulders
together hard. Squeeze them together
hard. Okay, head back. Head back. Head
back. Head back. Okay.
Shoulders back. Yep. Big breath. Yep.
Shoulders back. Shoulders back.
Shoulders back. Good. Heels down.
Shoulders back. Heels down. Shoulders
back. Partial lock out. Good. Shoulders
back. Shoulders back. Shoulders back.
Good. Yeah. Nice.
You kept on going.
Oh, I didn't even know. To be honest, I
was just worried about You were in the
groove. You were in the groove. That's
why you could have just kept on going.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's what it's
about. Just get in the groove and whack
whack. For me actually, when I do a high
rep set, my first one slow. I'm like,
get the groove. Get the groove and then
it's just boom boom
boom boom. Keep on going. Keep on going,
right?
Next. Cool. I'm going to do one more set
and I'm going to get you to am wrap it.
Okay, cool cool. Not so much am wrap it.
Like as much as I see until your
technique starts going out of position.
So, I don't need you to fail. I just
want to see if you can just stay in that
groove next.
>> All right, mate. Okay, and then just
keep it there and just keep on pressing
and see where we get to. If we get to 10
reps like that, hey, beautiful. Yeah,
mate mate. Okay, good. So, take a you
know, 5 minutes rest.
>> All right, done done. And then have a
drink
and then we'll come back. King king.
Let's let's talk targets here. Like,
what do you think? How many reps do you
reckon? Uh
Yeah? Yeah, pump out eight.
>> All right. I think just work towards
that. Cool. That's that's the goal.
That's the minimum minimum. Yeah. All
right. Okay, if you're still in
position, I'm going to probably have to
make up my mind by rep six
where I go, yep, keep going. Keep going.
I don't want to spring it on you on rep
eight where you decide I'm going to put
it down and I go, no, keep going. You
know what I mean? Yeah, yeah. So, by rep
six, I like to look at it and go, yep,
[__] keep going. Cool. Easy.
What are the habits that If I don't say
anything by rep six, I'm probably just
going to grab the bar.
>> Cool cool. Easy. By by number eight. No
dramas. All right.
Technique technique technique.
>> Yeah, I got you.
And a middle finger on the line. Very
good.
Okay, how are the feet? Yeah, perfect
perfect perfect. No, that's good. That's
good.
All right.
Slide into position. Heels down hard.
Shoulders back. Good. Good. Breathe in.
Head back. Head back. Breathe in.
Shoulders back. Squeeze them together.
Good.
On your breath.
Shoulders back. Shoulders back.
Shoulders back. Harder. Good. Heels
down. Get in the groove. Let's go.
Partial lock out. Head back. Good.
Shoulders back. Shoulders back.
Shoulders back. Two more. Two more.
Seven. One more. Easy. Nice. Nice.
Nice.
Nice. I like that. I like that. So,
that's what I want is like it's not
really slow down the bar speed at the
end. You know what I mean? It's just
like I can see you're working at the
end. Let's end the set. Cool cool cool.
Beautiful. Instead of going to the point
where we're grinding.
Now, this is the difference between for
everyone at home, difference between
strength training and muscle building
training. When the goal is muscle
building, the goal is to wait for that
slow down cuz that's when we know the
muscle's [__] working.
A few more reps where we're doing that.
That takes you that's the wrong
position. So, in strength training, I
want to leave more repetitions in
reserve. Okay? So, there's a time and
place for all of them.
I want to write you out a program
where when we do the barbell stuff,
that's how you end the set with reps in
reserve. I still want to add muscle
building stuff where you do the grind
[__]
That's different. Okay? That was nice.
How did that feel? No, great. I mean,
it's never felt like that. Such a easy
smooth up and down up and down. Like I
said, it's always felt like
Yeah, it's all the muscles and I'm like,
[__] it. Yeah. And then after, I'm like,
the pump is crazy. Whereas actually like
after this, I'm like,
my chest is sweet. Interesting. I could
treat chest right now. Yeah,
interesting.
>> after I usually my chest is gone. Yeah,
yeah. Okay, I reckon now, let's leave it
there, brother. Let's leave it there.
So, Thank you so much, man. I appreciate
that. That was awesome. Nice
introduction to some new techniques for
you. Now, what I want to do is think
about how I'm going to put it all
together on a program and I'm going to
present it to you.
All right?
>> Okay. And then give you some homework
>> Yeah, mate. and then see about, you
know, just seeing what the progress is
weeks and months to come. Cool cool
cool. Good.
Um uh
What what what month are we in now,
Jennifer? So, we're in 20 It's the 30th
of March. So, it's the end of March. So,
I'll have the program for you 1st of
April.
>> Yeah, see New South Wales Strongest Man,
which in my head is the next competition
I want to do is July.
April, May, June and then July what?
Like let's just say mid-Julyish. I think
it's like 18th or something. So, it's
like three and a bit months. So, that
could be, you know, like a 16-week
block. Mm. That sounds like we're 16
weeks away. Yep. I think we can do some
good things in 16 weeks. Yep. Or
I do a little trip now.
Get the trip out of the way then come
back lock in.
>> [laughter]
>> I want to lock in, but not before I do
this first. What what trip, mate?
>> [laughter]
>> Where are you going? Where you going?
>> I was thinking Mexico, mate. Ooh, okay.
>> want to try the real tacos, you know? I
want to Every time I eat tacos, I want
to go,
but it's way better in Mexico.
Jaden Lang kind of session just out of
nowhere type of thing. Like, he's in the
middle of [__] touring around. He's a
busy guy. Very successful and where can
my audience find you? Uh well, I make
YouTube, Jaden Tyson Lang. Instagram,
Jaden Tyson Lang. TikTok, Jaden Tyson
Lang. Snapchat, Jaden Tyson
>> over social media. He does a lot of cool
stuff. We'll leave all of his links in
whatever the section is. I'm sure most
of my people are already following you
anyway.
But,
watch this space and hopefully when he
gets back from his little touring and
all that stuff, we're going to get him
on a bit of a prep and and see where
these techniques take us. Yeah, mate.
>> Honestly, I just want to say, you know,
even for your audience, like I've been
fanboy of this guy since I was a little
kid. Like I like I'm telling you like 12
years ago, I we got the first session
with this guy. My cousin paid, you know,
to get a session with this guy cuz I had
no money and then I jumped in the
session. We trained together
>> Oh, you were there.
Well, you're 30 now. So, that was 12
years ago. So, there you go. That was
18.
>> 18 years old, yeah. Fresh 18. Just out
of high school. Like cuz I remember like
what me and my cousin used to go to
school uh sorry, go to gym like after
high school and everything like that.
So, been doing it for ages, but like
every day we would rock up and be like,
did you see see what Sebastian did? Did
you see what Seb did? Seb shoulder
pressed this or we'd be like, did you
see what Animal Kid did? Did you see
what Dinny J did? Did you see what we
would just like, you know, everyone
everything that you posted was so up to
date with it and we would just like find
it and honestly just made us like, wow,
we got to lift heavy now. We want to
lift heavy and it's you know, such a you
know, such a privilege and I'm so
grateful that I'm actually here now
being coached by you and being helped by
you. It's funny because I see this
famous guy saying these to me. It's
like, come on, bro. No, no, no, no.
Well, anyway, bro, well, let's say it's
an honor, brother. It's a pleasure to
see you [__] kicking ass. Like this
guy and his business and his everything.
He's got millions of followers and and
all of that. Love to see it and and
hopefully we can spread the good word of
all of this strength work and do some
more stuff moving forward. Hope you guys
enjoyed that session. Uh if there's
anything else you want to see, comments,
all that stuff, like, subscribe and I'll
see you guys next time.